	ARMSTRONG CAPITAL
Memo
To:	WJC
From:	Ben Ringel
cc:	
Date:
Re:	Jewish Outreach and Fundraising
	
The 2016 election cycle is vastly different from the 2008 election cycle. In 2006 then Senator Obama was considered to be anti-Israel while HRC had a stellar Senate record on Israel and her husband as President was probably Israel’s best friend ever in the WH. Furthermore, the Republican field in the primaries was filled with candidates who did not have strong pro-Israel voting records or positions prior to each one announcing their candidacy. As such the Jewish community felt very strongly that Hillary would be better for Israel than any other candidate. These feelings let to a very robust fundraising environment for Hillary throughout the Jewish community.
The Jewish Community:
The Jewish community is defined as the community that (1) identifies as Jewish (2) puts Jewish issues and/or Israel ahead of any other social/economic issues and (3) is active in any type of synagogue or Jewish organization.  Using this definition all orthodox (observant) Jews, all Conservative Jews and approximately 35% of reform Jews make up the Jewish Community.  The remaining 65% of reform Jews put social issues (abortion, environment and immigration) ahead of Israel and Jewish issues and as such do NOT have to be targeted in Jewish outreach and the campaign’s traditional outreach will cater to their ideas.
When the Jewish Community is identified as above it becomes clearer on how to create a platform that embraces Jewish issues and work within the Democratic Party platform and will not work within the Republican Party platform. 
Jewish Issues:
Continuity of Judaism in the US:  In the orthodox and conservative Jewish community the most pressing domestic issue is the cost of a Jewish day school education.  Education costs have risen to $17,000.00 a year per child. A typical family has 3 children; that is over $50,000 a year in tuitions. This has created stress on marriages in these hard economic times. 
Jewish Poverty:  There are Jewish poor and there are Jews who care about all the poor. The concept of a “social net” comes from the Bible (Torah) – Examples are: The Bible requires every Jew to tithe and every farmer in the land of Israel to observe “Leket, Shicha and Peah” - which are all different funds given to the poor, widowed and orphan and amounts to 35% of the farmers output. These same concepts are the fundamentals of major Democratic Party principles - welfare system and universal healthcare; the less fortunate need to be taken care of or our society as we know it will disappear.
Israel:	The US-Israel relationship must remain strong and special. It must be superior to any other relationship that the US has with any other country in the Middle East. Israel must retain its military edge. There is no moral equivalency between Palestinian attacks and Israeli actions of defense.  Israel is the only democracy in the Middle East and our most valuable ally in the region.  Israel needs our constant support at the UN. 
Iran:  Iran cannot have a nuclear weapon. Iran must be held to perform under the Iran deal. The international coalition is vital to enforcement of the Iran deal that was signed. There can be no slippage on enforcement of the deal. 
These 4 issues are the crux of the issues important to the Jewish community. In each case we have to make the argument that Hillary as president will be more effective and a better President than any republican. These issues are (a) important for voters in key states of PA, NJ and FL and (b) nationally to raise money from Jewish donors. Our positions on these issues have to be worked through and molded to what will address the Jewish community’s needs and Hillary’s existing positions.  For example on Jewish education – avoid tax credits but embrace charter schools.
Fundraising:
In 2008 cycle we were very successful in reaching out to lay leaders of Jewish communities across the country and convince them of Hillary being a better President on their issues. We put together 3 dinners at Whitehaven where we had 20 leaders come with each one bringing between $10,000 and $25,000 of checks.  Some guests were targeted to host their own events and some were to bundle money from the existing pro-Israel PACS they were involved in their home towns. Through these efforts we raised about $1,600,000 in the primary.
In June I went back to my key 20 “bundlers” to solicit them and received the following responses:
We hate Obama so we are now republicans;
Hillary supported the Iran deal;
The republicans are all pro Israel so if Hillary loses it won’t be so bad; and
Where is Hillary on our domestic issues?
Sure – we would love to help.
Only 1 person said he reached out to her in State a few times and never heard back.
Now is the time where we have to engage and start becoming aggressive in our Jewish fundraising.  Hillary is in very strong position in the polls and everyone believes she will be the nominee. The Rubio and Bush campaigns received by far the most Jewish money from donors who could support Hillary if they felt comfortable on the above 4 issues.
Game Plan:
Get a date for a lay leaders lunch where 20 donors have to each bring $20,000 of checks. Have the lunch before year end in NYC. I have 10 people to seed that event with. This event will be with Hillary and will be a forum to discuss the 4 issues and be billed as a conversation with the campaign to educate the campaign to formulate positions on these issues for her presidency. ($400,000).
Low dollar event in NYC with Robbie Mook and a Jewish singer such as Matisyohou geared to Jewish singles in their 20s. ($100,000).
WJC making calls to 4-5 large bundlers from 2006 that need “attention” to get engaged in this cycle. 
A Jewish liaison who can do fundraising support (60%) and voter outreach (40%). It should not be someone from AIPAC.  They must know Florida. Danielle Borrin or someone like that. Jenny Davis or Sarah Bard would be great too.
A large year end Los Angeles Jewish event to get as much money in as possible before year end. The Jewish community in Los Angeles is not engaged. This could be Hillary or WJC. Chaim’s house would be best venue. ($350,000)
A high level Israel policy person part time at headquarters. Norm Eisen or Lee Feinstein.
John Podesta should meet with Malcolm Hoemlein and all his members to assure them he is not anti-Israel and hears their concerns on Iran.  
I firmly believe if we can get all this done it will create a powerful forward movement and inertia that will get us $850,000 by year end. Right now it’s being done piecemeal with an “FOB” calling someone here for an event and Friend of Hillary calling this one for an event and it’s not being effective. We can raise close to $3,000,000 if we set up the right Jewish outreach.
